Hello image-tamers, 

You can find your Assignment 1 assessments and comments on Blackboard now. Below are some general observations that may be useful for the group as a whole, and of course please email us if you wish to discuss your assessment or your progress through the unit materials:

1. Creativity was quite high overall, with a very wide variety of concepts explored with a number of techniques and approaches. Some (many?) of you remained firmly in your "comfort zones", preferring strategies that allowed you to avoid mistakes rather than embracing them. This is understandable as most of you were focused on learning the technical aspects required. Also we sensed that some of you decided early on an idea or concept and then dedicated the remaining available time to polishing or perfecting that one idea. Instead we encourage you to make/break lots of GIF-works before moving into an executive or delivery phase. Build wide early on so that you can build high later (just ask our lego-expert 7yo!) More on this over the coming weeks...

2. Research was generally poorly documented. Some of you provided little evidence of the concepts and processes behind your GIFs. What we hoped to find was evidence of your early experiments, screenshots, sketches, failed attempts as well as inspiration and background. So please document these things during your development of the video-project. Hint: You don't need to write an essay (although it is ok if you do), just keep adding these things to your Tumblr (and use a consistent tag).

3. Delivery was overall of a high standard. Many of you managed to pack a lot of GIFness into 1MB and satisfied all the technical criteria (including the naming convention). Considering many of you had never made an animated-GIF before, let alone using the sometimes daunting Photoshop, this was an impressive result!

This week we will have a look at all of the GIFs in a special presentation, and you will have a chance to share your experiences and ask questions about the project before we move onto the final video project.
This week’s seminar topic will discuss strategies for activating the vast archives of images and video such as flickr, youtube and of course, the archive of archives, google!

So see you in class with lots of coffee, energy and questions, looking forward!
Andy Simionato and Karen ann Donnachie