1. Demonstrated ability to prepare and deliver programs at undergraduate and
postgraduate levels, including online delivery, and the ability to produce high
quality curriculum or digital media program materials.
My ability to develop, design and deliver successful undergraduate courses can be
demonstrated through my experiences at two leading Australian Universities.
At Curtin University, from 2013-2015, I created, coordinated and taught two
new digital media courses "Human Computer Interfaces" and "Creative Image
Communication" for the new Visualisation Technologies major of the School of Design
& Art. Specifically, I designed these courses to incorporate emerging and expanded
visual practices in digital, electronic and internet art, alongside established art
and media theory.
At RMIT University, from 2017, I developed and (currently) deliver the new University
elective "Visualising Data Through Art" for the School of Art. In addition to
teaching courses I have designed, I have recently joined the teaching team for the
foundation course of "Communication Design Studies" in the School of Design,
RMIT.
In each of these formal teaching roles I have generated original content (seminars,
lectures, workshops and other learning-activities) based on my professional
studio practice, industry experience and practice-led research. I present crossdisciplinary
experimentation within an academic and scholarly framework and I
provide students with custom-made practical on- and off-line tools and resources
in order to guide them through their own projects—from the initial conceptual and
prototyping processes through iterative development, self and peer critique, to
final projects.
All of my courses show evidence of increased enrolment—the Curtin University
courses I designed and delivered, tripled enrolment over four semesters of delivery,
the RMIT elective enrolments have doubled in their first year of delivery. I have
achieved between 83% and 100% GTS (Good Teaching Score) for every course I have
taught in the last 5 years, with many positive student survey comments, of which I
cite a handful (full transcripts of student surveys available on request):
This unit was one of the most interesting classes I have ever taken. The availability
of resources (online programs) was helpful [...] we were immediately able to apply the
knowledge and experience and play with the ideas and programs we learnt about.
The practical application of techniques allowed me to learn effectively and better
engage with the unit content. A variety of facilities was [sic] available which
encouraged me to explore the unit content according to my personal interests and
work styles. All in all the unit provided a means of looking at the world in a different
and exciting way.
boundaries of the course, their own practice, and the discipline, and I am able toguide them through research, scholarship and professional networks to reach theirpotential.The effectiveness of my ability to create effective learning environments isevidenced by the following student survey comments (full transcripts available onrequest):Very easy to follow along, lots of case studies and examples, loved the degree ofengagement. Tutor very friendly. Overall a highly thought provoking class, much open tointerpretation and perfect for all skill Levels.Karen ann’s enthusiasm, knowledge and generosity. Interesting topics and the wayKaren ann ensured that everyone was keeping up.Great teachers that spend a lot of time with you in order to make sure you understandeverything properly. Working in a collaborating environment was also helpful.The tutors Andy and Karen are awesome! They will literally break down the simplestthing if you didn’t understand it!Communication skills of tutors made it very easy to learn content.4. Track record and recognition within their discipline or profession evidencedby industry links, industry experience, or publications, development of newresearch initiatives, competitive research funding.My track record as a professional creative ranges over 25 years and can be dividedinto three consecutive, and interwoven, phases.The first began in the field of professional photography, with commissions forleading fashion, architecture and design brands and publications. Evidence ofindustry recognition of this professional practice can be found in the calibre of theglobal brands and international publications which commissioned me and highvisibility of my outcomes. Commissioning clients included Gianfranco Ferré, RomeoGigli, Calvin Klein, adidas Originals, Marithé et Francois Girbaud, and Diesel, andeditorial photographic commissions included photography for periodicals such asSportswear International, Rolling Stone Magazine, Tokion Magazine (Japan), FormMagazine (Germany), Archistorm (France) and Vogue (Italy).In the subsequent phase of my career I increasingly incorporated emergingtechnologies and digital media practice into my image-making, and by the early2000s I launched the highly influential on– and off–line digital media publicationThis is a magazine. Evidence of this project’s influence is in its intensive exhibition and publication history over the past 20 years. It has consistently receivedrecognition from peers and public alike—through interviews and articles in leadingindustry publications such as Creative Review (UK), ID (UK), Dazed & Confused (UK),+81 (Japan), Graphics International (UK), Vision (China), Monument (Australia), LaLibération (France), among many others. The project is dedicated chapters in bookssuch as Come Together (Princeton Architectural Press), Unbound: A Reader (RISD),and magCulture (UK); has received awards and grants; and has been included inlocal, national and international exhibitions, including in Milan’s Design TriennialMuseum in 2016.Through these experiences in photography, digital media and publishing, grewthe third phase of my professional career as a digital artist, publisher and scholar.Recognition of my creative outcomes and my scholarship is demonstrated by thescope and reach of my intensive exhibition and publication history. I have authored24 research quality publications; spoken at dozens of International conferences,festivals and workshops, including keynote lectures at leading universities inthe world; I have had my creative works exhibited in 10 countries; and I have beenfeatured in over 50 (printed) publications, as well as hundreds of web articles andblogs. I have successfully obtained competitive funding for my practice, includinggrants from Department of Culture and Arts, Western Australia.5. May require ability to supervise higher degree by research candidates.I was conferred my PhD last year through my multidisciplinary practiceledresearch on selfie-culture, and with this qualification I look forward tothe opportunity to supervise higher degree by research students. Duringmy postdoctoral studies I peer-reviewed and edited the work of my peers incollegial settings such as research conferences, symposia and the publicationof proceedings and abstracts. I strongly believe that my extensive and variedmultidisciplinary studio practice, my experiences in editing, proofing and writingacademic publications, and my commitment to sharing new knowledge, makes mewell-suited to HDR supervision.6. Ability to build effective networks with colleagues and generate alternativefunding projects through effective liaison with industry and government.I strongly believe that my ongoing commitment to industry engagement is reflectedby the invaluable network of peers and industry links that I have grown, maintainedand used, over my career.Over recent years, I have interwoven my existing network of professional peersand industry connections with my growing network of academic colleagues andgovernment links, as demonstrated by my emerging track record in industryfocusedpractice-led academic research. The development of these extensivenetworks have allowed me to successfully initiate opportunities and generate
corporate and institutional support and funding to support the realisation ofa number of projects with noteworthy institutions such as Perth Institute ofContemporary Art (PICA), Hochschule Liechtenstein, Politecnico di Milano (Italy).One example is the monographic book Nava: Printers in Milan, a project whichembodied my research in using augmented-reality media in printed books, wasfunded by industry partners, and for which I received a major creative-researchprize from Curtin University in 2016. In 2014, I edited and published the artist’sbook, Erin Coates: Kinesphere, produced with Perth’s peak contemporary art institute,PICA, and funded by a Catalyst: Katherine Hannay Visual Arts Commission Grant.This collaboration is a further example of my ability to generate industry andgovernment funded projects, through my strong network of colleagues.7. Excellent interpersonal and communications skills appropriate for interactingwith higher degree by research candidates, staff and industry, together with astrong commitment to teamwork and multidisciplinary collaboration.My professional career and my studio practice is founded upon collaborativepractice and much of this experience is shaped by many high profile projects forthe fashion and design industry in Milan, often involving multiple stakeholders andlarge teams of industry professionals, working closely together to achieve our goalswithin critical budget and time constraints.My continuing commitment to teamwork can also be seen in many areas ofmy professional practice. Examples include the publishing of over 300 artistsin my collaborative publishing projects This is a magazine and Atomic ActivityBooks, a collaborative practice recognised by its feature as a case-study in therecent book on collaborative practice: Come Together: The Rise of Cooperative Art andDesign (Princeton Architectural Press, 2015). Furthermore, my commitment toteamwork can be seen through my well-received teaching practice emphasisingpeer-to-peer collaboration; the youth outreach and tech-workshops that I run forCity of Melbourne Libraries; and finally, my participation in last year’s deliveryof RMIT’s ‘peer partnership’ program which has initiated collaboration in datavisualisation teaching between my course in the School of Art, and the departmentof Mathematics.To support and sustain this strong commitment to collaboration I have developedexceptional interpersonal and communication skills. I am able to coordinate andenthuse team-members, and I am able to translate knowledge through speakingand writing for diverse audiences. I aim to be always respectful to the person,sensitive to tone, and mindful of purpose in my written and spoken communication.Most importantly, I value conversing with others, and I believe this is fundamentalfor successful communication with researchers, staff and industry.One example to demonstrate the effectiveness of my interpersonal skills,specifically within the context for interaction with HDR candidates, happened while
working as editor and peer reviewer for conference proceedings at Curtin University;I was asked to intervene in order to assist with an author of a paper who hadsternly resisted editing their work for the publication. I successfully liaised with theauthor over several emails and phone calls and was able to bring forward the editsrequested by the publisher. I later received a letter of gratitude from the author forhaving improved their chapter, which included the comment:I think it is I who should be thanking you. You really have been a great editor and yournice demeanour has influenced the way I am handling two book chapters that I amediting at the moment.8. Demonstrated professional practice within the previous two years.My current professional studio practice comprises designing interactive physicaland networked systems including web and app design & coding, installations,electronics, programming microcontrollers & robotics (eg. cameras, drawingmachines), data visualisation, digital manufacturing, publishing, and expandedphotography. Outcomes incorporating all of these studio practices have beenpublished or exhibited in the last two years with industry and institutionalrecognition.Specifically within the previous two years I have undertaken an artist-in-residencewith a final exhibition in Milan, Italy for my digital-media and drawing-machines; Ihave presented my new digital and electronic artworks at the Electronic Literaturefestival in Portugal; I have edited and published the artist’s book Lenin in Perth; Ihave authored a chapter for Black Swan Press; I have participated in the MelbourneArt Book Fair in both 2017 and 2018 with book launches and public talks; I have heldoutreach workshops on digital media through the City of Melbourne’s ‘Meet YourMaker’ program and have been guest speaker at ACMI X; I have exhibited worksin Kyoto, Tokyo, Milan and Perth; I have taught at RMIT School of Art and Schoolof Design; and, while completing the award of PhD (Art) for my research on theselfie and its effect on contemporary photography, I received the "Greg CrombiePostgraduate Publication/Creative Work of the Year Award," from Curtin University.I am committed to bringing all these multidisciplinary studio practices andprofessional experiences to my teaching role. Students are able to follow and learnthrough my work, which I present as ‘real world’ case-studies—for example, as theydid last year as I prepared my networked, robotic drawing machines for exhibitionin Italy and Portugal. Reciprocally, my engagement with student-initiated projectsand scholarship serves to further drive me to keep extending my own research,learning and professional practice.